New article (#4)
Barbanio/Publications: Made by technology.md

## Made by technology

> Every historical moment is associated with its technology. The social, political, and economic practice of human beings depends mainly on the tools at their disposal. Their relationship with the environment around, their knowledge of the world, their worldview, depend on technological prostheses that enable them to improve their perception, to understand the past, and, above all, to foresee a plan for the future. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every historical moment is associated with its technology. The social, political, and economic practice of human beings depends mainly on the tools at their disposal. Their relationship with the environment around them, their knowledge of the world, their worldview, depend on technological prostheses that enable them to improve their perception, to understand the past, and, above all, to foresee a plan for the future. 
```

> Moreover, technological development is the backbone of our understanding of the 21st century. The new technologies define our era and make possible to understand the creations of the contemporary human beings: their science, their way of living, their cultural habits and so on. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, technological development is the backbone of our understanding of the 21st century. The new technologies define our era and make it possible to understand the creations of the contemporary human beings: their science, their way of living, their cultural habits, and so on. 
```

> The contemporary humankind is impossible to be understood without the constant company of technology that allows him to improve his senses, to expand them. Today, technology has become an extension of the human body. 

Reviewer: It's ok to use plural forms like `them` and `their` to make things gender-neutral:

```suggestion
The contemporary humankind is impossible to be understood without the constant company of technology that allows them to improve and expand their senses. Today, technology has become an extension of the human body. 
```

Reviewer 2: that's what I was going to say!

Author: I try this conscientiously but I always miss something 😅

> The contemporary humankind is impossible to be understood without the constant company of technology that allows him to improve his senses, to expand them. Today, technology has become an extension of the human body. 

Reviewer 2: "Contemporary humankind.."

Men and women have thus shown themselves to be irremediably permeable to technology, a technology that goes beyond them. The human being today is a subject made by technology. The main question is: who is in charge of this factory? With what interests? Who is making us? Who is designing us?

**Utopia and dystopia**

Since August 1991, when the World Wide Web was made public as a service, the use of the Internet has spread all over the planet and become popular. The first heroic times led to think of the birth of an autonomous, free zone, outside the control of the power of governments and large companies. A place in which to create and communicate without restrictions. A huge blank page on which to start building.

> However, the idea of collective intelligence was gradually eroded by the advance of simplifying globalization, ultimately capable of fostering unidirectional and unidimensional currents of communication contrary to the illusionary possibilities from which it started. At the same time, we assist to the beginning and triumph of “netocracy”, a new kind of power base on the control (or monopoly) of certain tools.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if "we assist" is a false friend with Spanish. To remove any doubts, I'd use "witness":

```suggestion
However, the idea of collective intelligence was gradually eroded by the advance of simplifying globalization, ultimately capable of fostering unidirectional and unidimensional currents of communication contrary to the illusionary possibilities from which it started. At the same time, we are witnessing the beginning and triumph of “netocracy”, a new kind of power based on the control (or monopoly) of certain tools.
```

In the end, the medium prevailed over the messages, and the "wall" of the social networks ended up being a torrent of disinformation and banalities. The Internet thus became a way of looking at oneself in a mirror, of forming a continuous selfie based on not seeing beyond prejudice and the saturation of information and images. A tool of individualism and separation from reality. And, what is even worse, an infinite source of personal data to be traded.

**Collaboration against individualism**

> Against the main currents determined by tech giants there are still lots of possibilities of using the ways in alternatives ways, understanding the huge possibilities open by technologies, some of them, usually forgotten by people. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Against the main currents determined by tech giants, there are still lots of possibilities of using the ways in alternative ways, understanding the huge possibilities open by technologies, some of them, usually forgotten by people. 
```

Facing the idea of an Internet of massive and monolithic movements, there is another open possibility: the return to the collective, to the community, and its needs. Open source thus becomes the counterweight to the dangers of indiscriminate use and the generation of information noise on the Internet. 

Open source projects refer to software development with a license that gives access to the source code so that programmers can freely use, write, modify and redistribute the code. Open source is developed collaboratively and distributed over the Internet. It allows generating a product with a continuous improvement from the hand of a dedicated community. 

> [AsyncAPI](https://www.asyncapi.com/?utm_source=devops&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=made-by-technology) is a project that takes into account that human beings have naturalized that technology. And technology can guide us and can define our steps, is not mere daily practice. We should be more aware that technology is made by us, humans, and we are the ones who create and determine the future it holds for us. We are the ones who build the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[AsyncAPI](https://www.asyncapi.com/?utm_source=devops&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=made-by-technology) is a project that takes into account that human beings have naturalized that technology. And technology can guide us and can define our steps, is not a mere daily practice. We should be more aware that technology is made by us, humans, and we are the ones who create and determine the future it holds for us. We are the ones who build the future.
```

Reviewer 2: Or ... 

'Technology can guide us and define our steps, it's not merely daily practice. We should be more aware that technology is made by us, humans, and that we are the ones who create and determine the future it holds for us.'

**Light between the walls**

Transparency and horizontality are the axes on which this movement is settled. The absolute exposure of the work, economy, and politics of a project or company in a society with such opaque foundations, represents a return to the initial roots of the Internet, an autonomous zone where projects are built from the ground up. 

> Doing things following the open source philosophy promotes a working system based on the open exchange of ideas and teamwork based on flexibility and constant innovation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doing things following the open-source philosophy promotes a working system based on the open exchange of ideas and teamwork based on flexibility and constant innovation. 
```

This working model clashes head-on with a system based mainly on competitiveness and concealment. It appears as a stepping stone to repeal opaque and oppressive government models, and a step towards a freer, more transparent, and equitable society.

> Collaborating in an open source project offers you to be part of a community of people involved and enthusiastic about the same goal. At AsyncAPI, everyone is welcome, regardless of their sector, their experience... all you need is enthusiasm. This enthusiasm is based on the idea that, even more so in times of climate emergency and global crisis, another world is possible. Technology is the only tool in our hands to shape it. It is the key element of cultural, social, and political struggle. It cannot be left in another hands, it must be built collectively and with the needs of the community and users in mind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collaborating in an open-source project offers you to be part of a community of people involved and enthusiastic about the same goal. At AsyncAPI, everyone is welcome, regardless of their sector, their experience... all you need is enthusiasm. This enthusiasm is based on the idea that, even more so in times of climate emergency and global crisis, another world is possible. Technology is the only tool in our hands to shape it. It is the key element of cultural, social, and political struggle. It cannot be left in other hands, it must be built collectively and with the needs of the community and users in mind.
```

> Collaborating in an open source project offers you to be part of a community of people involved and enthusiastic about the same goal. At AsyncAPI, everyone is welcome, regardless of their sector, their experience... all you need is enthusiasm. This enthusiasm is based on the idea that, even more so in times of climate emergency and global crisis, another world is possible. Technology is the only tool in our hands to shape it. It is the key element of cultural, social, and political struggle. It cannot be left in another hands, it must be built collectively and with the needs of the community and users in mind.

Reviewer 2: 'Collaborating in an open source project offers you **the opportunity** '
